[THEME MUSIC]
>> And then after
the chakra systems,
we're going to start looking at
the energy fields of the body.
And then from the immediate
ones, such as the etheric body
and what is often
called the aura, which
is simply your thoughts and your
feelings and your emotional--
I mean, your physical
body also emits light.
That sometimes is
mistaken for auras.
It's usually a disease
when it does that.
And we'll look at those
which are enclosed.
And then we'll go to
the fields like that,
the crystalline structure
fields out there.
Because that's where I
really want to get to.
But we'll start in
and go out from there.
But we'll start with
this aspect by talking
about the inner chakras.
And to understand the
inner chakras that
run inside the body, we'll look
at first just the eight chakra
system.
It's the simpler one.
And you'll see what's
the origin of that.
And in order to look at
the eight chakra system,
it's easiest to compare
it to sound and music.
We've already seen how
music and organic structure
are interrelated.
We saw that with the bees.
And we saw that
in the spine, how
the spinal column
and the weights of it
were equivalent to the
differences in cycles
per second in music.
And so in order to
talk about the way
that energy flows through
the octave in terms of music
and just the way you
play music, play it
between the steps
and the half steps
and all these things in
music is identical to the way
energy flows up the spine.
It's exactly the same.
So if you can
understand it in music,
you can understand the body.
And a lot of the Sufi groups are
going through this, especially
Gurdjieff.
For those of you who
are studying Gurdjieff,
I'm going to give you an image
that he didn't know about,
that he searched for, I
believe, most of his life, which
is the sacred image that
was behind the Enneagram
and behind the work
that he was doing.
But anyway, to start with, we'll
look at the octave up here.
Just Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do.
Between the third
and the fourth note--
this is a whole
step, a whole step.
But between the third and the
fourth note, between Me and Fa,
there is a half step.
There's also a half
step between Ti and Do,
between the seventh and
eighth note, those two places.
Now in musical
instruments that's
built in, like in
a flute, the way
they arrange the holes
is such that it's already
built into there so you
don't have to work it out.
If you play something
like a violin,
whether you've got a
fretless situation,
then you have to
know how to do that.
Well, you haven't--
it's not built in.
Or a guitar, it's
built in because you've
got the frets in there.
Because if you look at the
spacings of them and everything.
So it goes between
those two places.
And if you look at
it, it goes into--
there's two patterns in
there that repeat themselves.
It goes 1, 2 and 3.
Half step 4.
1, 2, 3.
There's two sets of patterns.
And one of them,
you can call female.
you can call male,
though it's debatable which
way you want to do that.
And that there is a difference
between this male or female
pattern.
And this male
pattern is between Fa
and So are the fourth
and the fifth note.
Right there.
It's the differences between
male and female notes.
And Gurdjieff used to
talk about this place
and how if this
was a cosmic scale,
that a tiny, tiny,
itty-bitty change that
was made between the
fourth and the fifth note
would affect the whole cosmos
dramatically in a big way.
And so you got real
three places here--
these two half
steps and this place
between the fourth
and the fifth that we
need to identify in
terms of shape and form.
This is the Enneagram
that Gurdjieff used.
It was a two-dimensional
representation of this.
And both of these are
two-dimensional representations
of something that is
an actual sacred form.
Neither one of these
are sacred geometry.
Gurdjieff didn't know
about sacred geometry,
but this is a pattern
that is one step removed.
This is the work
of Walter Russell.
His work was one step
removed from sacred geometry.
But it has a lot
of similarities.
They've discovered that there is
a flow in here inside of here.
And that flow in the Enneagram
goes from 1 to 4 to 2 to 8 to 5
to 7 to 1 again.
And those are called the wings.
And there's another flow that
goes from 3, 6, 9 in here.
And I'm not going to
get into the Enneagram.
That's not my real purpose here.
But except to say that
the reason that there
are nine points
in the Enneagram--
and there's really a tenth one
in the center, which is seldom
talked about, which the
way these two things
relate together, why
there's nine points on here
and there's eight notes
up there, the first--
it doesn't look like
they correspond.
And that's because
the two halves
steps are considered
as important
as the rest of the pattern.
So it really goes 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
10th one or the retreat
is the one in the middle.
And this pattern can be applied
to just about everything that
has a sound implication,
which is everything.
And people like-- if you
remember Oscar Ichazo--
you might remember him, Arica.
And his work, he had 12 men
who came around him also.
And they began to teach
a geometrical means
of enlightenment.
And one of those, which
was one of his teachers
was Claudio Naranjo, who
is a really good teacher--
and he discovered how
personality types are associated
with this and that there
are 27 primary personality
types that once you
know the formula,
you can just look at a person,
and you know everything
about them really, really fast.
And it's far more accurate
than the 12 personality
types of astrology.
But anyway, that's not my job
here to get into all that stuff.
This is mostly what
I want you to see up
here is how this works.
Now the chakra system, the--
well, first of all, the
hidden sacred form that
is behind it, which
only makes sense anyway,
since you've got biology and
sound that are interlinked
is the same one that
creates the biological life
forms, the egg of life.
These are the notes of
the eight-note scale.
And you can even identify these
two half steps in the fourth--
it's placed between the male
and the fourth and the fifth.
And so what I'm going to do
is show you how this works.
And though it's intuitive in
what you're going to see here,
this is really a
lattice or a grid.
And there is a one below.
And there's a one we're in.
There's a one above there.
In terms of the
chakras also, there's
a set of chakras below you.
And there's a set of
chakras that you are in.
chakras above you.
The set of chakras below
you are compressed.
And they are in the
ratio of the phi ratio,
meaning that if this was the
length of the set of chakras
below you, that
the one you're in
would be approximately that high
and the ones that go above you
would be approximately
that high.
They are much farther
stretched out above you.
And they're super
compressed below you.
This is where you came from.
This is where you are now, and
this is where you're going.
But just to look at music,
first of all, this here,
and to see what sound
does, when it moves
through this basic structure.
Sound comes in from
below at this first note,
from what was below, which
is the first note of Do.
It's now entered into
this white tetrahedron.
Maybe I should do
it the other way
around, since I've got that
one arranged like that.
And I'll come in-- it comes in
first as this black tetrahedron.
Now there's three places
that it could go to.
It's in the black tetrahedron.
It has to move to one
of these three places.
For our purposes,
it doesn't matter.
Experientially, it might
matter because that's
mother, father, child.
But male, female, and neutral.
But for our purposes,
it has to go somewhere.
And we're just
going to pick one.
So say it goes here.
So now this is Do
and Re on here.
It now has two left over.
It's got to pick one.
So we'll pick this
one over here.
So it goes to this one.
This is Do, Re, and Mi.
No matter how it
did it, it moved
in an equilateral triangle.
Do, Re, Mi.
Equal spaces between them.
All right.
But now it has to change--
it either went in this
equilateral triangle,
this equilateral triangle, or
this one, one of the three.
Or it could have went
this way or this way.
There's only six possibilities.
But now it has to get back here.
It has to change direction
from this flat plane
that it's moving in, which
is the first three notes.
It has to changed direction
and come back here to this one.
And all I can do is--
remember how shadow
forms are the key.
And I can only give you a right
brain explanation of this.
I'm going to go in here.
[LAUGHTER]
You've got this little rod.
And this would be the whole note
step between the Do, Re, and Mi.
But then when it has to turn
and go out of the plane,
look what happens to a
shadow form of a turn.
It shortens.
It gets shorter.
So in other words, the length
between this one and this one
and this one is a whole note.
But when it turns and
goes back to the other one
to get back to here,
the experience of it
is that it's shorter.
And so you have Do, Re,
Mi, half step to Fa.
It's now completed
the black tetrahedron.
And in order to continue on,
it has to change polarity
from female to male.
And there's only one
way it can do that.
It goes right through 0 point
from square 4 to 5 over here,
right through the
center, through the womb.
And it passes right
through the middle,
over to the opposite
polarity, from 4 to 5.
And that's what Gurdjieff
was really talking about.
It's in 0 point between 4
and 5, between Fa and So.
And so a little tiny
change in the great void
will make a huge change
out in the reality.
So now it gets over here onto--
they went into cascade 4.
Came over here to 5.
Say like this.
It's now here.
And it moves for the next
three in a flat plane.
Whichever way it wants
to go, it'll come around.
And it goes for So, La, and Ti.
Up like this.
Again, whole step notes.
Because it's all in
one plane of movement.
But then it has to
make another half step,
another angular change away from
the plane to get up to the top.
And so you end up with another
half step between Do and Ti.
Now your chakra system is one
of these things opened up.
Running up your spine.
And so you have the
same things going on
between your eight chakras.
You have blocks, changes
of angles between 3 and 4
and 7 and 8.
You also have a very special
place between 4 and 5,
between the heart
and between sound.
So in the eight-point
chakra, you have one
at the base of the spine.
You then have a second one which
is just a little bit higher
up in there.
You have another one up here.
You got these eight chakras.
This one really is the pineal
gland in the center of the head.
Here, this one's above the head.
This one doesn't sit here.
It sits over here in the front.
Let me show you
this in a moment.
But in the first
point, I just want
to show them as a straight
line, but not exactly that way.
And so energy comes in from
another dimensional level.
In other words, you get
born here into this world.
You came from some other
well, some other place.
And when you do, you
have three chakras--
the first, second, and third--
that become your
domain of expression.
Or they become like lenses to
interpret the reality through.
And you can't get up any
higher because there's
this half step here.
There's a block.
There's a wall right
here that God put there.
And so let me go to
the body here a moment.
Same thing is true
with color here.
This cube, the color wavelengths
correspond to the sound
In the same way,
though many people
have tried to take the seven
notes of sound and correspond--
see, there's only three
primary and three secondary.
And they tried to
add another color
to get the color
linked in with that.
But really, what it is,
it comes in as white.
It then goes up to the
three primary colors,
goes across the
other side and comes
with three secondary colors,
turns and becomes black.
But then black becomes
white on to the next grid.
And so it's really a
combination of three primary,
three secondary black and white
that are the key to all of that.
I really need to
redo this drawing.
But these are-- and this
is much more complicated.
There's actually a rotational
motion going up the spine.
And females rotate up one
way and males rotate up
the other way up the spines.
And so I've got
this first division
here showing this
rotational energy.
And the one for the
male is actually
in space for the sexual energy.
The penis goes up to.
Female when it's not
back there, though.
It's actually in here further.
But I've divided them further so
you can see there's a division.
And there's a half step
in between here that
blocks these, a wall that keeps
anything from consciousness
from moving higher.
And then there is
another wall back here,
which is at the
back of the head.
This is why the Egyptians used
that 45-degree thing on the back
of the head.
The chakra, the half-step chakra
is this little bump that's
on the back of your head.
Just to give you an idea,
this is what happens.
Life comes in here.
It comes into a brand
new reality, which
is what we're all about to do.
We're all about to die
here, you might say, and be
born into another reality.
And when you go into
this new reality,
it's new, meaning you don't
know anything about anything.
Nothing corresponds
with anything you know.
The colors aren't the same.
Shapes don't make sense.
You don't know what anything is.
And you're just-- when
you were a little baby,
when you came in
here, you might have--
you didn't know
what anything was.
It takes a while to
understand what it is.
So you only have really
one thing on your mind.
You're not interested--
at that point,
you're not going to be
interested in how much money you
got in your bank account
or anything else.
You're going to only be
interested in one thing,
and that's the survival.
That's staying there.
That's going to be your total,
absolute, complete focus
of you're in this world.
And you're going to try
to do everything you
can to stay in this new world.
But at some point,
you will master that
and you will figure it
out how to be there.
And then once that
gets mastered,
you will then become aware of
the next chakra or lens, which
is you'll be aware
that there are
other beings here or
other aspects of yourself,
depending on what you
want to look at it.
And it will become a natural
desire, though that desire is
totally different
from place to place,
to make contact, physical
contact with the life
or consciousness that is there.
And so the second one in terms
of third dimensional world
is called sexual.
And so the sexual chakra
lies on the next one.
Once you've usually made
those two connections,
the next one that
follows after that,
which is sitting at the navel--
and by the way, the third
chakra is exactly at the navel.
This whole thing
where the Hindus say
that it's one or
two fingers below
and even a lot of the martial
arts that say the center's
down there, if it's
there, there ain't
anything that shows up
on the computer screens.
Not a thing.
And we can go right
into the center of it.
And we were kept--
that's because we all
had that training.
And we started looking
in there and go, God,
there's nothing here.
Where's the third chakra?
It's not here.
And so we just went up.
And bingo.
And I mean, you take
the belly button.
And you go right
down the center.
And I really think
that the ancients
were trying to hide that.
They did so many secret things.
And I think it's one of those
things that we thought was true.
But just I can tell,
that isn't true.
It is right where you
think it would be.
[LAUGHS]
And so the third one that
comes into your existence
has to do with ego and
controlling the environment,
mastering the
environment itself,
being able to work with
these new shapes and forms
and learning how to move and
all this kind of stuff, which
ultimately turns into, in this
world, anyway, the control
and the power and all
these kinds of things
that it leads to the
distortions of it.
But then you have a wall.
In other words, the
spirit won't even
know that there's
anything more than that.
And so in the beginning stages
of going into a new dimension,
you become totally involved in
survival, sexual energy or sex,
and power.
And if you take a-- this is
true of a person or a country
or a planet or a
galaxy for that matter.
And so in terms of a country,
you could take like the United
States back in, say, the
late '40s or early '50s.
That's a real good
time in there.
And we had not discovered that
there was anything above that
yet.
And almost everybody
in the United States
during that period
of time was totally
involved in the first three
things of survival, sex,
and power and control
or combinations of it
in one way or another.
That was materialism.
That falls in the thing of
getting money and houses
and making sure you
got lots of food,
whether all these
kinds of things
are all following these
kinds of categories.
But at the same time, in
the early '40s and 1950s,
you could have gone
to another country,
any of the older countries
and certain areas of China.
A good one is
India, because we're
more familiar with
that one, or Tibet.
But India would be a good one.
In India, they had
long ago found out
about this as a country and
went up into these setup here.
And in the fourth, fifth,
sixth, and seventh,
there was another wall up here.
So when you find out
where this doorway is,
then you come up into here.
And so India wasn't
really concerned so much
anymore about materialism
or all that kind of stuff.
They were concerned about
love and sound, music,
causal playing of how
things are together
and the final spiritual
realms up in here.
They were concerned
about other things that
were more important
at the same time
while the United States was
down here really putting
all their energy into getting
the physical planes together.
And there are people
that are the same way.
So this doorway
here is one that--
I mean, all you guys
have one way or another
found this doorway
here, as you've all
discovered this up in here.
What you're now looking
for, is this doorway.
You're now becoming
aware that there's
another doorway, that there's
something else even above that.
We have built in to
our physical body--
and why we didn't,
I don't know--
another angle in here.
We put this.
This is the pituitary gland.
This is the pineal gland.
This is-- what you call it--
the medulla at the back.
You got to do is take this spot
right here and go straight back.
It's in a straight line.
From your third
eye, straight back.
>> Where is it?
>> [LAUGHS] Right here.
OK, OK.
Now, is that even?
>> A little--
>> How's that?
>> Slight angle.
OK, whatever.
This is on me.
This is where it is.
I've got my finger right on it.
It's right there on me.
So that's the place where it is.
So maybe there's a little
bit lower down in there.
It is in a plane.
There's another angle in there.
We put this angle in
there for some reason.
I'm not sure why we did it.
But it is really caused
an interesting situation
where the ascended masters--
because when they went
through the chakra
systems of their own cells
and they got up to here,
they had a real hard time
finding the seventh one.
And so what happened is all
the ascended masters went--
in terms of it and looking at
it in terms of the chakra system
of the Earth, they went up to
the 12th overtone of the sixth
dimension.
And you got about almost 8,000
ascended masters as of just
recently.
And only three or
four of them were
able to figure out where
the seventh dimension was.
Couldn't find the
doorway through.
There's just a few.
Because all it really
takes is just one.
Eventually, those three or four
are training the rest of them.
And they're now getting it.
In the last couple of
years, they got it.
They're all flowing over now
into the pineal gland area
of the seventh
dimension of the Earth,
which is really the 12th
dimension of in term-- or no.
I said 12.
No, that would be 10 or 11.
Not sure.
10 or 11, which is the 12th
dimension is actually a crown
on top of it.
Yeah.
There are different ways
of approaching this.
In fact, the Anunnaki didn't do
this system that we're doing.
They did go back here
first and came out
this way to a chakra
that's in front of you.
There's another one out here
in space, out in front of you,
in front of your third eye.
And they projected their
consciousness that way and then
made a 90-degree
turn straight up.
And it was through
that particular way
that they were able
to find the doorway
to the next dimensional level.
And so it was like this L
shape and this 90-degree L.
And they became
known as the "Ls"
for a long time because
of its meditation.
And later because they
were the old ones,
that's where the
word elder came from.
And knowing what that
was, they were called
the elders and the elder race.
Because of the meditation
practice that they used to make
this 90-degree turn.
From what I'm being
told, we're not
going to go that direction
that you're talking about.
We're not going to come from
here to here first as a race,
though, that is a possibility.
Now, you may do that.
But as an overall
planet, we have, I guess,
already decided that we're
going to go up to here,
shoot back over
here, and then out.
And I'll give the pattern.
Again, I'm not saying
you have to do this.
This is just what I believe
that we're going to do.
There are a lot of
concepts on these chakras,
and I'm only giving
one idea about them.
And I'm going to give a very
complex one in a minute,
more complex than what you're
probably just about ever
used to seeing.
And the energy flows
also have other channels.
There's a spiraling energy
connections and things
that are connected to them too.
But I'm only going to
be looking at one way.
Yeah.
>> Could you please name--
you named the first
three chakras,
but you skipped up to the head.
>> In terms of the octave,
we skipped from the navel up
to here.
Now we're going to go--
this is the heart chakra.
But this is not the heart
chakra from my point of view
of universal consciousness.
This is the heart chakra
of an individual portion
or, in other words, of love
from one person to another
or love for music or love for
something, but not everything.
Love for everything is
on the pentatonic scale,
which is a more primary scale.
There's five notes
in the black notes.
What we're talking about here
is the white notes of the piano.
And so that fourth
one relative of that
is up here, whereas the one that
we're wanting to actually focus
on is lower than that.
So from my point of
view, we have two hearts.
We have a heart connection
on the pentatonic scale.
And we have a heart
connection on the octave.
And they're 7.23
centimeters apart.
I always found them.
So this is the heart.
The next one is if you were
male, it's the Adam's apple.
If you're female, you
don't have an Adam's apple.
And it's right in there.
And that's the fifth one.
And that's the sound current.
In terms of the octave, the next
one is up here between the brow.
But there's really-- from
my way of putting here,
you got three in there.
But really, there's
five in there.
There's these three.
But there's one on this side.
And there's also another
one in the back of that
one out in space behind it.
And the pituitary
gland is up here.
It's the one in front.
And usually, people talk
about the pituitary gland
as being the third eye.
Not from my point of view
It's not third eye at all.
To me, this is the causal
plane that hinders--
it's where the geometries
and the mental understandings
of the reality are held.
But you got to go back
into the pineal gland
in the center of the head.
And that is literally
the third eye.
The pineal gland, You remember
that picture of an eye
that I showed at one point?
Was a round ball.
The pineal gland
looks just like that.
It is an eye.
It's an eyeball.
It is round.
It has a lens on it for
receiving light through.
It's hollow.
It has color receptors on it in
the inside, just like an eye.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's to receive
light from above.
Just as these eyes
can see out this way,
they can't see that way.
The pineal gland can see
up but can't see down.
And so it receives
light from above.
But these eyes see
a certain portion
of the electromagnetic spectrum.
These eyes see a
fourth-dimensional prana.
It's a different kind of light.
But the eye, I believe, the
pineal gland can look around.
It has a movement.
And if the pineal gland looks
through the pituitary gland,
that's when the psychic
energy is fully turned on.
But if it's looking up, it's
receiving the prana from above.
Like if you look at a
bird, their pineal gland
sits on the top of their head
with a thin, no more thicker
than your eyelid
over the top of it
so that it's receiving the
light from above as it's moving.
>> A baby's soft spot is--
>> Soft spot, that's
where you breathe through.
This is where the
tube comes through.
It's right on top of your head.
So when a baby--
this is an important thing
I don't think I said.
Remember I said that
13,000 years ago, we fell.
And when we did, we started
breathing like this.
And we didn't take the
prana in here anymore.
So when a woman has a baby,
she's still breathing like this.
Baby's breathing
in the proper way.
All the way through the
nine months and all the way
after it comes out,
it's breathing in a way
that we're trying
to teach right now.
And so you can look at the
top of the baby's head.
And you'll see this pulsing
in and out, in and out.
It's bringing the prana in.
And if you were to look
underneath the perineum--
perineum is like in a female's,
between the vagina and the anus,
that soft spot in the middle.
That's where the tube also
runs up through here also.
And it looks like a solid spot
also, just like this does.
But if you really
check a baby, you'll
see that that in
is also pulsing.
There's a pulsing
from both ends.
And it's breathing
from the both ends.
>> If a mother is practicing
the prana breathing,
will the baby be able to stay
doing the prana breathing?
Or is it--
>> Yeah, we've been able to
demonstrate this when Machi,
when she had Elena, who
was now four years old.
Machi at the time-- now,
Machi is not doing this.
We went through an
interesting change,
which I'm willing to share
with you at one time.
But for a long time, Machi
was doing the breathing.
At this point, she's now become
a Baptist because of her father.
I can't explain all this stuff.
But while she was doing the
breathing, when Elena was born,
Elena's soft spot, it took
almost nine months before she
was influenced by other people.
So when she was eight
or nine months old,
this thing was still pulsing.
It was still going on.
And these guys really
had the right idea.
They just put the hole where
you breathe on top of the head--
[LAUGHTER]
--make sure that he
never does what we do.
So you can't even
possibly bypass.
So they take their prana
and their air right through.
And it goes right through
their pineal gland.
And so they don't ever--
they can't make that mistake.